W-22106204-operation-limits (#1046)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.13/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-graphql-operation-limits.adoc

= GraphQL Operation Limits Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: graphql, operation limits, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | GraphQL Operation Limits

> >s| Summary | Caps depth, aliases, root fields, and directives in GraphQL operations before Flex Gateway forwards traffic upstream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s| Summary | Limits GraphQL operation depth, aliases, root fields, and directives

>s| Category | Security
>s| First Flex Gateway version available | v1.13.0
.1+>.^s| Returned status codes
| 400 - The operation exceeds one or more configured limits. The JSON response lists each violation in GraphQL-style `errors` with messages such as `Query depth of 7 exceeds the maximum allowed depth of 5`.
|===

== Summary

> The GraphQL Operation Limits policy measures each incoming GraphQL document against limits you set. When the operation exceeds a limit, the policy returns a 400 Bad Request error with `Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8` and a JSON body that includes an `errors` array. The policy adds one array entry per violation, so one request can return several messages when multiple limits fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL Operation Limits policy limits incoming request document's depth, aliases, root fields, and directives. When the operation exceeds a limit, the policy returns a `400` error code and a json `errors` array containing the exceeded limits. You can limit any combination of these fields:
```

> You can cap any combination of these measurements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Maximum depth: The deepest nesting of field selections in the document. A query such as `{ hero }` has depth 1, and `{ hero { name } }` has depth 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Maximum depth: The deepest nesting of field selections in the document. For example, a query `{ hero }` has a depth of 1, and `{ hero { name } }` has a depth of 2.
```

> * Maximum aliases: The total count of field aliases across the document, including nested fields. Aliases help clients batch work, but they also support abuse patterns that rely on many aliases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Maximum aliases: The total count of field aliases across the document including nested fields.
```

> * Maximum root fields: The largest number of top-level fields on any single operation in the document. Selections inside inline fragments at the root add to this count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Maximum root fields: The maximum number of top-level fields for any operation in the document. Selections inside inline fragments at the root add to this count.
```

> * Maximum directives: The total count of directives on operations, fragments, spreads, inline fragments, and fields across the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Maximum directives: The maximum number of directives across the document's operations, fragments, spreads, inline fragments, and fields.
```

Flex Gateway evaluates limits at parse time from the document text. Because fragment spreads don't expand, metrics reflect the written document instead of a fully expanded query plan that the gateway builds at runtime.

> For persisted queries, the gateway resolves the document without inline query text. The policy bypasses these requests and allows them to pass through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For persisted queries, the gateway resolves the document without inline query text. The policy bypasses these requests and allows them to pass to the upstream service.
```

> If the parser can't read the query, the policy logs a debug message and doesn't block the request, so upstream validation or other policies can still run.

Reviewer: Seems like security vulnerability 😅

> If you disable or omit every limit, the policy loads but allows all requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Use this policy on Flex Gateway API instances that expose a GraphQL interface. Apply it at the API or resource scope as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== Configuring Policy Parameters

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFile]

----
- policyRef:
    name: graphql-operation-limits-flex
  config:
    maxDepth: <integer> // OPTIONAL, use -1 or omit to disable
    maxAliases: <integer> // OPTIONAL, use -1 or omit to disable
    maxRootFields: <integer> // OPTIONAL, use -1 or omit to disable
    maxDirectives: <integer> // OPTIONAL, use -1 or omit to disable
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===

> | Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Parameter | Required | Description
```
Remove default row

| `maxDepth`

> | Optional

Reviewer: Change Optional to no everywhere.

| Omit or `-1` to disable

> | Non-negative integer cap on deepest selection nesting. Flex Gateway treats values below zero like an omitted field and doesn't apply a depth cap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum depth of nested fields in a single document.
```

| `maxAliases`
| Optional
| Omit or `-1` to disable

> | Non-negative integer cap on total field aliases in the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of field aliases in the document.
```

| `maxRootFields`
| Optional
| Omit or `-1` to disable

> | Non-negative integer cap on root-level fields in any one operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of top-level fields that an operation can declare.
```

| `maxDirectives`
| Optional
| Omit or `-1` to disable

> | Non-negative integer cap on total directives in the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of directives across the document.
```

|===

==== Resource Configuration Example

This example caps depth and aliases while leaving root fields and directives unrestricted.

[source,yaml]
----
- policyRef:
    name: graphql-operation-limits-flex
  config:
    maxDepth: 8
    maxAliases: 20
    maxRootFields: -1
    maxDirectives: -1
----

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

> [%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]
```

|===

> s|Field s|Description s|Default s|Required or Optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Field |Description ||Required
```

| Maximum Depth

> | Maximum depth of nested field selections in a single document. Set to -1 to disable this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum depth of nested fields in a single document.
```

> | `-1`, limit off | Optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| No
```

| Maximum Aliases

> | Maximum number of field aliases in the document. Set to -1 to disable this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of field aliases in the document.
```

> | `-1`, limit off | Optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| No
```

| Maximum Root Fields

> | Maximum number of top-level fields that an operation can declare. Set to -1 to disable this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of top-level fields that an operation can declare.
```

> | `-1`, limit off | Optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| No
```

| Maximum Directives

> | Maximum number of directives across the document. Set to -1 to disable this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of directives across the document.
```

> | `-1`, limit off | Optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| No
```

> | Advanced options

Reviewer: Remove advance options

| Standard policy options, such as policy version and application rules.
| |
|===

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: Remove this note
